kathara-lclean(1) -- Stop a Kathara lab
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`kathara lclean` [`-h`] [`-d` <DIRECTORY>] [<MACHINE_NAME> [<MACHINE_NAME> ...]]

## DESCRIPTION

Gracefully shuts down a running lab.  
By default, stops all the machines of the lab. If a list of MACHINE_NAMEs is provided, then only machines with a matching name and that are part of the lab will be halted. 

## OPTIONS

* `-h`, `--help`  
    Show an help message and exit.

* `-d` DIRECTORY, `--directory` DIRECTORY  
	Specify the folder containing the lab.

	Cleans the Kathara lab that is located inside DIRECTORY.  
	If no `-d` option is provided, assume the lab is located in the current directory.


## REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs opening an issue on the [offial GitHub repository](https://github.com/KatharaFramework/Kathara) where the development and maintenance is primarily done.  
Issues which are security relevant should be disclosed privately to the [Kathara mailing list](mailto:contact@kathara.org). You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.  
When reporting a bug remember to write used commands, eventually attach your lab, and include the output of `kathara-check`(1) in order to make possible to reproduce the bug.

## AUTHORS

Kathara was born from a redesign of Netkit. Its first version was developed by Gaetano Bonofiglio and Veronica Iovinella. Currently is mantained by Lorenzo Ariemma and Mariano Scazzariello.

People involved across time also include:

+  Giuseppe Di Battista
+  Maurizio Patrignani
+  Maurizio Pizzonia
+  Massimo Rimondini
+  Gabriele Lospoto

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2017-2019 License GPLv3+: [GNU GPL](http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html) version 3 or later.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

## SEE ALSO

`kathara`(1), `kathara-lstart`(1), `kathara-lrestart`(1), `kathara-linfo`(1), `kathara-lab.conf`(5)