kathara-lrestart(1) --  Restart a Kathara lab
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`kathara lrestart`
>           [`-h`] [`-n` | `-t`] [`-d` <DIRECTORY>] [`-F`] [`-l`]  
>           [`-o` [<OPTION> [<OPTION> ...]]] [`--xterm` <XTERM>]  
>           [`-H`] [`-c` <COUNTER>]


## DESCRIPTION

Restarts a Kathara lab. It simply wraps a call to `kathara-lclean`(1) and then `kathara-lstart`(1). Mainly it has the same options of `lstart` with the lack of some options (e.g. `--print`).

## OPTIONS

* `-h`, `--help`  
    Show an help message and exit.

* `--noterminals`
    Start the lab machines without opening terminal windows. Override the default setting specified in `kathara.conf`(5) file.

* `-t`, `--terminals`
    Start the lab machines opening their terminal windows. Override the default setting specified in `kathara.conf`(5) file.

* `-d` DIRECTORY, `--directory` DIRECTORY  
    Specify the folder containing the lab.

    Restart the Kathara lab that is located inside DIRECTORY.  
    If no `-d` option is provided, assume the lab is located in the current directory.

* `-F`, `--force-lab`  
    Force the lab to start without a lab.conf or lab.dep file.

    As a native behaviour, Kathara starts a machine for each directory that it finds in a designated path, by default the current directory. In order to prevent the user from accidentally starting random machines from a directory that does not contain a lab, lstart requires the presence of the `kathara-lab.conf`(5) file in the affected directory. If this file is not required for your setting, and you still want to launch your lab without creating it, you can use this option to force Kathara starting a lab in the affected directory.
  
* `-l`, `--list`  
    Show informarion about running machines after the lab has been started.

* `-o` [OPTION [OPTION ...]], `--pass` [OPTION [OPTION ...]]  
    Apply options to all machines of a lab during startup.

    Should be a list of double quoted strings, like `--pass "mem=64m" "image=kathara/netkit_base"`.

* `--xterm` XTERM  
    Set a different terminal emulator application (Unix only).

    As an example: `gnome-terminal`(1). Override the default setting specified in `kathara.conf`(5) file.

* `-H`, `--no-hosthome`  
    `/hosthome` dir will not be mounted inside the machine.

    By default, the home directory of the current user is made available for reading/writing inside the machine under the special directory `/hosthome`. This option disables this behaviour, thus not making the host filesystem accessible from inside the machine. Override the default setting specified in `kathara.conf`(5) file. 

* `-c` COUNTER, `--counter` COUNTER  
    Start from a specific network counter (overrides whatever was previously initialized).

    For further information about the network counter see `kathara.conf`(5).

## REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs opening an issue on the [offial GitHub repository](https://github.com/KatharaFramework/Kathara) where the development and maintenance is primarily done.  
Issues which are security relevant should be disclosed privately to the [Kathara mailing list](mailto:contact@kathara.org). You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.  
When reporting a bug remember to write used commands, eventually attach your lab, and include the output of `kathara-check`(1) in order to make possible to reproduce the bug.

## AUTHORS

Kathara was born from a redesign of Netkit. Its first version was developed by Gaetano Bonofiglio and Veronica Iovinella. Currently is mantained by Lorenzo Ariemma and Mariano Scazzariello.

People involved across time also include:

+  Giuseppe Di Battista
+  Maurizio Patrignani
+  Maurizio Pizzonia
+  Massimo Rimondini
+  Gabriele Lospoto

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2017-2019 License GPLv3+: [GNU GPL](http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html) version 3 or later.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

## SEE ALSO

`kathara`(1), `kathara-lstart`(1), `kathara-lclean`(1), `kathara-linfo`(1), `kathara-lab.conf`(5), `kathara-lab.dep`(5)