kathara(1) -- A network emulation tool
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`kathara` [`-h`] [`-v`] <command> [<args>]

## DESCRIPTION

Kathara is a network emulation tool.

It is an implementation of the notorious [Netkit](https://github.com/maxonthegit/netkit-core) using Python.  
Ten times faster than Netkit and more than 100 times lighter, the framework has the performances to run in production.

Within the Kathara environment each network device, called machine, is implemented by a container, and each interconnection link is emulated by using a virtual network.

Each machine can be configured to have an arbitrary number of (virtual) network interfaces.

By default, machines use a Docker Image which includes network oriented software such as routing daemons (RIP, OSPF, etc.), an HTTP server, firewalling utilities (iptables(8)), diagnostic tools (ping(1), traceroute(1), tcpdump(1), etc.).  
By configuring the appropriate software, it is possible to emulate with a machine a specific network device (e.g., a router).  
Other applications (such as SDN and P4) can be added using custom Docker Images.


Kathara provides two alternative interfaces to start and configure machines. A set of `v`-prefixed commands (vstart, vclean, vconfig), that allow to start and manage single machines while providing finegrained control on their configuration, a set of `l`-prefixed commands (lstart, lclean, linfo, lrestart, ltest), that ease setting up preconfigured network laboratories consisting of several machines, and a set of global commands (connect, info, wipe, settings, check). 

## KATHARA COMMANDS

The possible kathara command are:

* `kathara-vstart`(1)
	Start a new Kathara machine

* `kathara-vclean`(1)
	Stop a single Kathara machine

* `kathara-vconfig`(1)
	Attach network interfaces to a running Kathara machine

* `kathara-lstart`(1)
	Start a Kathara lab

* `kathara-lclean`(1)
	Stop a Kathara lab

* `kathara-linfo`(1)
	Show information about a Kathara lab

* `kathara-lrestart`(1)
	Restart a Kathara lab

* `kathara-ltest`(1)
	Test a Kathara lab

* `kathara-connect`(1)
	Connect to a Kathara machine

* `kathara-wipe`(1)
	Delete all Kathara machines and links, optionally also delete settings

* `kathara-list`(1)
    Show all running Kathara machines

* `kathara-settings`(1)
    Show and edit settings

* `kathara-check`(1)
    Check your system environment

## FILES

Kathara stores its default configuration settings inside a file named `kathara.conf`. This file is placed in the `~/.config` folder. If it does not exist when Kathara is launched, it will be created with default settings. See `kathara.conf`(5) for information about the location of this file and a description of its format.

## REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs opening an issue on the [official GitHub repository](https://github.com/KatharaFramework/Kathara) where the development and maintenance is primarily done.  
Issues which are security relevant should be disclosed privately to the [Kathara mailing list](mailto:contact@kathara.org). You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.  
When reporting a bug, remember to write used commands, eventually attach your lab, and include the output of `kathara-check`(1) in order to make possible to reproduce the bug.

## AUTHORS

Kathara was born from Netkit. Its first version was developed by Gaetano Bonofiglio and Veronica Iovinella. Currently it is mantained by Lorenzo Ariemma and Mariano Scazzariello.

People involved also include:

+  Giuseppe Di Battista
+  Gabriele Lospoto
+  Maurizio Patrignani
+  Maurizio Pizzonia
+  Massimo Rimondini

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2017-2019 License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.  
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

## SEE ALSO

`kathara-lab.conf`(5), `kathara-lab.dep`(5), `kathara.conf`(5), [Kathara official site](http://www.kathara.org)
