kathara-check(1) -- Check your system environment
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`kathara check` [`-h`]

## DESCRIPTION

Checks your system environment. It runs some tests to verify if your environment has problems, then prints out some version numbers to be used when reporting bugs.

## OPTIONS

* `-h`, `--help`  
    Show an help message and exit.

## EXAMPLES

    kathara check

Should give an output like this:

	*	Current Manager is: `<your_manager_name>` 
	*	Manager version is: `<your_manager_version>`
	*	Trying to run `Hello World` container...
	*	Container run successfully.
	*	Python version is: `<python_version_used>`
	*	Kathara version is: `<kathara_version>`

**NOTE:** If you are using the released version, the Python version could be different from the one installed in your system because it is packed into the Kathara binary.


## REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs opening an issue on the [offial GitHub repository](https://github.com/KatharaFramework/Kathara) where the development and maintenance is primarily done.  
Issues which are security relevant should be disclosed privately to the [Kathara mailing list](mailto:contact@kathara.org). You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.  
When reporting a bug remember to write used commands, eventually attach your lab, and include the output of `kathara-check`(1) in order to make possible to reproduce the bug.

## AUTHORS

Kathara was born from a redesign of Netkit. Its first version was developed by Gaetano Bonofiglio and Veronica Iovinella. Currently is mantained by Lorenzo Ariemma and Mariano Scazzariello.

People involved across time also include:

+  Giuseppe Di Battista
+  Maurizio Patrignani
+  Maurizio Pizzonia
+  Massimo Rimondini
+  Gabriele Lospoto

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2017-2019 License GPLv3+: [GNU GPL](http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html) version 3 or later.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

## SEE ALSO

`kathara`(1), `kathara-vstart`(1), `kathara-vconfig`(1)